**INTRODUCTION
The existence of this disease has a big impact on both socials and
economics. WHO has declared this a pandemic disease and many cities
around the world are in a lockdown situation. To prevent the cause
of this virus, it can be done by keeping a distance at least 1
meter, avoid going to crowded places, avoid touching the eyes,
mouth, and nose when outside, and cleaning hands with soap or
alcohol-based hand rub [11]. Providing containers for cleaning
fluids in public spaces is a form of Covid-19 prevention, but the
provision of containers is currently ineffective because there are
parts that are often touched. This could be a point of transmission
for Covid-19. Many health actions are carried out using automatic
systems including air quality monitoring [12], hand sanitizers
[13],hand hygiene[14].Hand sanitizers are an alternative for
washing hands during a pandemic. It can be used when and water are
not available. Hand sanitizer is also available in several forms
such as liquid (spray) or gel [15]. Hand sanitizer is usually made
from materials such as alcohol, polyacrylic acid, glycerine,
propylene glycol, or plant extracts [16]. The process of killing
germs starts with removing the oil on the skin, then the bacteria
in the body will come to the surface. Soap or alcohol will kill
bacteria after rubbing to your hand. Hand sanitizer is effective
against Covid-19.
So far, most of the available hand sanitizers do not operate
automatically. This article aims to make an automatic hand
sanitizer where sanitizer liquid can come out automatically. Here,
the circuit includes a ultrasonic sensor SC-04. The sensor senses
the proximity of hands under the machine. The machine is designed
for wall mount at a height of 4ft such that anyone can reach to get
sanitizer dispense. The sensor send signal to the microcontroller
and the controller takes decision to actuate the pump and valve
simultaneously to dispense the liquid sanitizer through a mist
nozzle.
