# M2_Contactless Hand Sanitizer

Hygiene is an important aspect to remain healthy. There are various
aspects of hygiene. A clean hand is one of them. Hands generally
are touched at various surfaces and can be exposed to direct
contamination. Cleaning hands at regular interval is recommended by
various health organizations including WHO.
Hand hygiene is now regarded as one of the most important element
of infection control activities. In the wake of the growing burden
of health care associated infections (HCAIs), the increasing
severity of illness and complexity of treatment, superimposed by
multi-drug resistant (MDR) pathogen infections, health care
practitioners (HCPs) are reversing back to the basics of infection
preventions by simple measures like hand hygiene. This is because
enough scientific evidence supports the observation that if
properly implemented, hand hygiene alone can significantly reduce
the risk of cross-transmission of infection in healthcare
facilities (HCFs)1-5.
Evidence suggests that hand sanitization significantly reduces the
transmission of healthcare-associated pathogens and the incidence
of HCAI (healthcare associated infections).[6]. According to the
Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), hand hygiene
encompasses the cleansing of your hands using soap and water,
antiseptic hand washes, alcohol-based hand sanitizers (ABHS), or
surgical hand antiseptics. These days, alcohol-based hand
sanitizers are increasingly being used instead of soap and water
for hand hygiene in healthcare settings.
Poor or inadequate hand washing and/or hand hygiene is known to be
problematic in hospital settings, and is a major source of
infections contracted while patients are admitted to a hospital.
While hand washing and hygiene policies and training are important
and can be effective in reducing the spread of infections, the
problem of infections due to unsatisfactory hygiene of staff,
medical professionals, and even patients continues to be
problematic. It is known to place hand washing stations and hand
sanitizer dispensers throughout medical facilities including in
examination rooms, hallways, lobbies, and even patient rooms.
However, such systems are purely mechanical and are incapable of
providing an automated means of establishing accountability of good
hygienic practices [7].

